Add attestation simulator, blobs info and some updates to Lighthouse Book (#5364)
sigp/lighthouse: book/src/advanced-blobs.md

# Blobs

In the Deneb network upgrade, one of the changes is the implementation of EIP-4844, also known as [Proto-danksharding](https://blog.ethereum.org/2024/02/27/dencun-mainnet-announcement). Alongside with this, a new term named `blob` (binary large object) is introduced. Blobs are "side-cars" carrying transactions data in a block. They are mainly used by Ethereum layer 2 operators. As far as stakers are concerned, the main difference with the introduction of blobs is the increased storage requirement. 

### FAQ

1. What is the storage requirement for blobs?

   We expect an additional increase of ~50 GB of storage requirement for blobs (on top of what is required by the consensus and execution clients database). The calculation is as below:

>    One blob is 128 KB in size. Each block can carry a maximum of 6 blobs. Blobs will be kept for 4096 epochs and pruned afterwards. This means that the maximum increase in storage requirement will be:

Reviewer: Blob size is 2**17 bytes

Author: Thank you, update in [b9cd6c7](https://github.com/sigp/lighthouse/pull/5364/commits/b9cd6c7247d47a152e421ed7d79a46863ee6b3ed)

   ```
   128 KB / blob * 6 blobs / block * 32 blocks / epoch * 4096 epochs = 96 GB
   ```

>    However, in practice, it is expected that not all blocks will be full of blobs. A practical scenario is that each block contains 3 blobs on average, which translates to an increase of storage requirement of 48 GB.

Reviewer: EIP-1559 style blob gas pricing will guarantee the average to be 3 unless someone can spend infinite ETH in fees.

Author: Fix in [b9cd6c7](https://github.com/sigp/lighthouse/pull/5364/commits/b9cd6c7247d47a152e421ed7d79a46863ee6b3ed)

I try to avoid using the word "guarantee" as it sounds a bit too solid. If the revision is not correct let me know

1. Do I have to add any flags for blobs?

   No, you can use the default values for blobs-related flags, which means you do not need add or remove any flags. 

1. What if I want to keep all blobs?

>    Use the flag `--prune-blobs false` in the beacon node. Please note that this will keep all blobs and will thus require a high storage space. 

Reviewer: We can tell them how much: 
30 * 2**17 * 3 * 86400 / 12 / 1e9 = 84GB / month or 1TB / year

Author: I calculate it to be ~79GB/month correct me if I am wrong. Update in [b9cd6c7](https://github.com/sigp/lighthouse/pull/5364/commits/b9cd6c7247d47a152e421ed7d79a46863ee6b3ed)

Reviewer 2: Yeah I think you're right for GiB (1024-based gigabytes)

# Blobs

> In the Deneb network upgrade, one of the changes is the implementation of EIP-4844, also known as [Proto-danksharding](https://blog.ethereum.org/2024/02/27/dencun-mainnet-announcement). Alongside with this, a new term named `blob` (binary large object) is introduced. Blobs are "side-cars" carrying transactions data in a block. They are mainly used by Ethereum layer 2 operators. As far as stakers are concerned, the main difference with the introduction of blobs is the increased storage requirement. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the Deneb network upgrade, one of the changes is the implementation of EIP-4844, also known as [Proto-danksharding](https://blog.ethereum.org/2024/02/27/dencun-mainnet-announcement). Alongside with this, a new term named `blob` (binary large object) is introduced. Blobs are "side-cars" carrying transaction data in a block. They are mainly used by Ethereum layer 2 operators. As far as stakers are concerned, the main difference with the introduction of blobs is the increased storage requirement. 
```

### FAQ

1. What is the storage requirement for blobs?

   We expect an additional increase of ~50 GB of storage requirement for blobs (on top of what is required by the consensus and execution clients database). The calculation is as below:

   One blob is 128 KB in size. Each block can carry a maximum of 6 blobs. Blobs will be kept for 4096 epochs and pruned afterwards. This means that the maximum increase in storage requirement will be:

   ```
   2**17 bytes / blob * 6 blobs / block * 32 blocks / epoch * 4096 epochs = 96 GB
   ```

>    However, the blob base fee targets 3 blobs per block and it works similarly to how EIP-1559 operates in the Ethereum gas fee. Therefore, practically it is very likely to average to 3 blobs per blocks, which translates to an increase of storage requirement of 48 GB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   However, the blob base fee targets 3 blobs per block and it works similarly to how EIP-1559 operates in the Ethereum gas fee. Therefore, practically it is very likely to average to 3 blobs per blocks, which translates to a storage requirement of 48 GB.
```

1. Do I have to add any flags for blobs?

>    No, you can use the default values for blobs-related flags, which means you do not need add or remove any flags. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   No, you can use the default values for blob-related flags, which means you do not need add or remove any flags. 
```

1. What if I want to keep all blobs?

   Use the flag `--prune-blobs false` in the beacon node. The storage requirement will be:

   ```
   2**17 bytes * 3 blobs / block * 7200 blocks / day * 30 days = 79GB / month or 948GB / year
   ```
   
   To keep blobs for a custom period, you may use the flag `--blob-prune-margin-epochs <EPOCHS>` which keeps blobs for 4096+EPOCHS specified in the flag.

> 1. How to see the info of blobs database?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. How to see the info of the blobs database?
```

   We can call the API: 

   ```bash
   curl "http://localhost:5052/lighthouse/database/info" | jq
   ```

>    Refer to [Lighthouse API](./api-lighthouse.md#lighthousedatabaseinfo) for an example of response. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Refer to [Lighthouse API](./api-lighthouse.md#lighthousedatabaseinfo) for an example response. 
```
